DSNOP WG Interim meeting 2021-10-26
Notes here do not include text from the slides
Approximately 40 folks attended

Discussion of draft-ietf-dnsop-dns-error-reporting
	Paul Hoffman: Pointed out that the draft submission deadline had passed
	Ralf Weber: Everything that can go wrong will go wrong
		Should report back everything even if it came from the authoritative server
		Resolvers could report back if filtering if it wants
		Roy: Should I mimic from RFC 8914? For security considerations, some errors show problems
	Petr Špaček: There is no reason for the RFC to prescribe which options are and are not allowed
		Explicitily say that all are allowed
		Roy: Difference between an error in a response and an error in resolver processing
		Petr: Problem if the resolver had to go to many auth servers
	Peter van Dijk: A resolving session might generate 20 errors
		Maybe have some sampling, with weighted towards the most valuable error
		Petr: Implementation-specific, but maybe talk about considerations
		Peter: Don't be too prescriptive
	Roy: NLnetLabs has proof-of-concept on the authoritative side
		None on resolver side yet
		Benno: Some EDE already on the resolver side
		Roy: Would love to have a session at Hackathon at IETF 113
			Quad9 has said they will support this
	Willem Toorop: Concerned about authoritative reporting agent name on every response vs. keeping state
		Maybe could measure whether resolvers are resilient to unknown EDNS options unsolicited at Hackathon
		Roy: Will talk to Matt Larson about getting research done on this
	Petr: Should try to keep this draft as stateless as possible
		State makes harder to debug, and is unneeded
	Paul: Doesn't have to be all or none
		Auths can send unsolicited announcements randomly
	Roy: Wants to know about more implementations
	Matthijs Mekking: There might also be underscore label in the name itself
		Roy: Will look in the current registry
			Wants encapsulation to prevent problems with QNAME minimization
		Tim Wicinski: We can define more than one underscore label
	Vladimir Čunát: The NULL QTYPE might differentiate it enough; posted that on the list already.
	Benno Overeinder: Good discussion
		Good ideas for Hackathon
		Please continue discussion on mailing list
		Plug for IETF 112
		Tim: Will find authors and tell them to do stuff
		Warren Kumari: We are making really good progress now
		

