DNS Operations (DNSOP) Working Group
IETF 111, virtual instead of San Francisco
Chairs: Tim Wicinski, Suzanne Woolf, Benno Overeinder
Minutes taken by Paul Hoffman
Notes here do not include material from the slides
	Mostly comments on presentations
About 110 people in the meeting

Session 1, 2021-07-26

Administrivia

Current WG documents

Guidance for NSEC3 parameter settings, Wes Hardaker
	draft-ietf-dnsop-nsec3-guidance
	Jim Reid: Would rather be based on measuring effort needed by resolvers instead of just existing practice
		Wes: Would need to understand what the impact is for high values
	Viktor Dukhovni: Had an off-list discussion with vendors on Jim's question
		The spike at 100 will disappear in the near future
	Wes: A number of people want 25 or 50
	Ulrich Wisser: Why go insecure? Why not SERVFAIL immediately?
		Wes: At least allow the request to go through
		Viktor: SERVFAIL has merit, but might might break things without easy resolution
	Jim: Maybe use error code to say why response was insecure or SERVFAIL


Glue is not optional, Shumon Huque
	draft-ietf-dnsop-glue-is-not-optional
	Duane Wessels: "All glue" is different than the way that authoritative servers today
	Geoff Huston: Why is sibling glue mandatory?
		Not sure that sibling case justified
		Mark Andrews: Can also get delegation loops with sibling glue
		Geoff: Put that statement in the draft
	Ralf Weber: Would rather not have this be a MUST
		Could open to Kaminsky-style attack, causes more data
		Shumon: Not imposing on resolvers, only authoritative
	Peter van Dijk: .com/.net do not do sibling glue today
		Please add an implementation section
		Shumon: Corrects Verisign setup
	Ulrich: Orphan glue is a security risk
		Shumon: Wants agreement that this could be discussed
	John Levine: Glad about the "all" glue point
		Don't add distractions with sibling and orphan
	

Fragmentation Avoidance in DNS, Kazunori Fujiwara
	draft-ietf-dnsop-avoid-fragmentation
	Paul Hoffman: Not giving a suggested value goes agains Best Current Practice
	Viktor: Is it sufficient to set "don't fragment" on the client?
		Maybe the attacker can fragement
		More detail would be great
	Paul: ANRW attack is about .5%
	Viktor: Would like a set of appropriate practices


Revised IANA Considerations for DNSSEC, Paul Hoffman
	draft-ietf-dnsop-dnssec-iana-cons
	Suzanne: Registry policy is uninteresting but has long-term effects
	Viktor: Old GOST algorithm is long-obsolete


Other drafts of discussion / New working group business

Survey of Domain Verification Techniques using DNS, Shivan Sahib
	draft-sahib-domain-verification-techniques
	Viktor: There is an obvious attacker-in-the-middle attack
		How do we scope this properly?
		Wanting to prevent challenge replay
	Donald Eastlake: There is already a registry for underscore names
		Shivan: Wants to use that for this use case
	Ben Schwartz: Supports this, wants more security attention
		Could trigger RR parsing bugs
		Could trigger wildcard bugs
		Some forms have predictable QNAMEs
	

DNSSEC automation, Ulrich Wisser
	draft-wisser-dnssec-automation
	Brian Dickson: GoDaddy is interested in supporting multi-signer
		Also want to support CDS/CDNKEY through EPP
		Also interest in bootstrap
		Ulrich: Bootstrap can establish initial trust between signers
	Shuman: Bootstrap document is interesting and should have more discussion in the community
	Suzanne: Not trivial to implement
		Wants to see interoperable implementations on the horizon
		Ulrich: Currents with PowerDNS, working in BIND; this, soon
			Wants independent service providers on board


DNS Access Denied Error Page, Dan Wing
	draft-reddy-dnsop-error-page
	Ben: This is aimed at browsers, but the browser vendors criticism have been ignored 
		Would want to see implementation interest before moving forward
		Dan: Next draft deals with this


Structured Data for DNS Access Denied Error Page, Tirumaleswar Reddy
	draft-wing-dnsop-structured-dns-error-page
	Ben: Is an improvement, still has concerns
		Name in structure is not authenticated, URLs are not constrained, lots of pitfalls
		Would prefer no URLs, not intended to be shown to users
		Would like to harmonize with HTTP response code 451
		Indirection through HTTP is complicated and unnecessary; won't work without an HTTP stack
			Dan: Categorizing is hard
		Some of the language here normalizes DNS response forgery, not acceptable
	Viktor: Make the responses as compact as possible
		Some resolvers are doing DoH on behalf of user: should errors be cached and returned from cache?
	Warren Kumari: Needs to be coordinated with SECDISPATCH and maybe TLS WGs
		Be careful that this does not normalize DNS filtering
	Vittorio Bertola: Better than unstructured one
		Why use indirection? Just use DNS reply
		Could just use hooks
		Will never get agreement on whether DNS filters are good
	Jonathan Reed: Could minimize responses by getting rid of cause of error
		Reality is that DNS is a control plane
		Wants to see filtering normalized
	Joey Salazar: Agree with Jonathon
		Will get people agreeing on concerns, particularly about misuse
		Doesn't see how this would normalize censorship, would help informed consent
	Andrew Campling: Agrees with earlier on this being positive development for user experience
	Paul: This is not simple
		We can make a bad thing easily
	Warren: Agrees this is much larger
		Questions whether documenting this will be seen as endorsing censorship
		Creates an attractive nuisance
	Andrew: Not helpful to use terms like "DNS censorship", many people opt into DNS filtering
		Surely this useful to help bring it out in the open
	
	
Session 2, 2021-07-29

Empty Non-Terminal Sentinel for Black Lies, Shumon Huque
	draft-huque-dnsop-blacklies-ent
	Peter van Dijk: Should be documented
	Joe Abley: Thinks it shoudl be documented
	Paul Wouters: Agrees
	Shuman: Cloudflare is on board with renaming and publishing
	Donald Eastlake: Requires a standards option to get IANA allocation
	Brian Dickson: Is this for NSEC3 or just NSEC?
		Shumon: Just for NSEC
	Shane Kerr: No benefit to use NSEC3
		Wants this to be a WG item so it can be fixed up

Liaison reply ISO 3166-1 user defined codes for draft-ietf-dnsop-private-use-tld
	Suzanne Woolf gave presentation from chairs
	Joe Abley gave presentation from the document editors (just the last slide)
	Viktor Dukhovni: Has thoughts on how to find things that are safe to use
		Joe: We are trying to capture what people are doing
			There are lots of ideas around this
			Not trying to close any doors
	Wes Hardaker: This is a cool hack
		Need to come at this from various vantage points
		Disagreemnt about whether this is even needed
		ISO's vantage point: the user is supposed to be countries that don't yet have a name
		We could be adding potential contexts for bad use
		It's their codespace from history
		Look what it looks like if we publish a document that says that we're maybe taking it back
		IETF vantage point: what is the precident if we reuse someone else's codepoints
		We would be furious if someone did this to us
		Thinks we should not do this at all
		Joe: History is not that important, but not as Wes as indicated
			Purpose is just to document what people are doing
			Thinks there is some benefit
	Brian: Would be useful if we could document and vaguely deprecate it if we have something that can replace it
		Or maybe an unsigned delegation
		Joe: There is no shortage of ideas
	Warren Kumari (no hats): If we were to document this, we should document all the strings
		Concerned that if we do just the 3166 codes, it will look like nudge-nudge-wink-wink if we just say "interesting"
		Joe: Agrees with Warren
			If we published something, needs to be very clear about what IETF means
	Wes: Looked at queries to B-root
		Number of queries for ZZ have been 4x since the draft was published
		Should document "do not do this"

Prioritisation of WG activities, Tim Wicinski
	PaulW: Doesn't like the methods being used
		There will always be drafts that are less important than the more important ones
		Wants some things removed
	Warren: If someone has said something is important, they should do a useful review in WG Last Call
	Shumon: draft-ietf-dnsop-ns-revalidation had delay
	Viktor: draft-ietf-dnsop-nsec3-guidance could be by next meeting
	PaulH: Why is alt-tld going nowhere?
		Suzanne: Needs to go look at it.
		Warren: Held it for special use domain problem statement, but that never finished
			Let's move it forward (as author)
		Tim: We poke authors off-list
			Not terribly transparent, maybe want to make it more transparent
			Does this independently of the WG
			Now have feedback from the poll
			Maybe pushing stuff down but not go away
		Brian: Thinks there is interest in this, can we do a show of hands for this draft
		Suzanne: It's been parked for a while, will take to the list, let them review the current draft
	Benno: This session is about the process
		Some drafts might need new authors
		Need to think about alt-tld
	Tim: Maybe have between-meeting meeting about the process
		Think the boostrapping document is interesting
		Will be responsive if people raise issues
		Suzanne: People should yell at us first
			Maybe publish a status report to the list a week before the meeting
	PaulW: Send a list of items we are working on every month
		Will help people to know which to kill
		Three times a year is not good enough to do this
		Tim: We keep something like that already, internally
	Brian: At DPRIVE, had things he wants to bring that to DPRIVE
	Ben Schwartz: Wants to know where documents should go between DNSOP and DPRIVE
	Warren: Had talked about a joint interim meeting between DNSOP and DPRIVE and ADD
