
# DNS Operations (DNSOP) Working Group
## interim-2021-dnsop-03


### Chairs
* Benno Overeinder [benno@nlnetlabs.nl](benno@nlnetlabs.nl)
* Suzanne Woolf [suzworldwide@gmail.com](suzworldwide@gmail.com)
* Tim Wicinski [tjw.ietf@gmail.com](tjw.ietf@gmail.com)

### IESG Overlord
* Warren Kumari [warren@kumari.net](warren@kumari.net)

### Document Status
* [Github](https://github.com/ietf-wg-dnsop/wg-materials/blob/main/dnsop-document-status.md)
* [Datatracker](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/dnsop/documents/)

* [Propose Slides](https://datatracker.ietf.org/meeting/interim-2021-dnsop-03/session/dnsop)


## Session interim-2021-dnsop-03

* Date: 15 December 2021
* Time: 17:00-18:00 UTC
* MeetEcho: [https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?short=d57b1252-6a56-4941-93a2-fc6e409b0eff](https://meetings.conf.meetecho.com/interim/?short=d57b1252-6a56-4941-93a2-fc6e409b0eff)

* Jabber:  [dnsop@jabber.ietf.org](dnsop@jabber.ietf.org)
* Minutes: [https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2021-dnsop-03-dnsop](https://notes.ietf.org/notes-ietf-interim-2021-dnsop-03-dnsop)


## Agenda

### Administrivia

* Agenda Bashing, Blue Sheets, etc,  5 min

### Current Working Group Business

*   DNS Terminology
    - https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-dnsop-rfc8499bis/
    - Paul Hoffman, 30 min
    - Chairs Action:

Only two open discussion points
    - Glue
    - Baliwick
    
PH: We appear to be mixing up the definitions and glue 
PH: Keep separate DNS Protocol vs. Registry Requirements. 

Matthijs:  perhaps a new definition of glue for the later definition of glue (2181). 

Fujiwara: Definition of glue between terminolgy and glue-is-not-optional draft should be in sync

Suzanne Woolf: Sometimes we document a term is used ambigiously.

PH: Have an entry for bailiwick that says this is not a useful term. It seems that people feel Glue 
is a useful term. 

Warren Kumari: Woudl be nice to have 

*   Delegation Revalidation by DNS Resolvers,
    - https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-dnsop-ns-revalidation/
    - Shumon Huque, Paul Vixie and Puneet Sood, 25 min
    - Chairs Actions:


Warren:  What is missing from the original resimprove

Paul Vixie: There were three topics 1) NXDOMAIn is NXDOMAIN; 2) this point; and 3) one more obscure point
